BUNDLE address-record Address record and structure What an address is as a governed record: its identifier, the specification and class it instantiates, the components that scope it, the locators that pinpoint it, and its aliases and rendered representations.
LAYER address-identity Address identity and classification Identifiers that make an address referable and de-duplicable, and the class and specification profile that determine which structure is legal for it.
FINDING address-identifier-and-uniqueness: The identifier or identifiers that designate the address record itself, distinct from the identifier of the object addressed or of any position, together with the scope in which uniqueness holds and the change events that force a new identifier.
FIELDS address-id identifier 1, address-id-scheme code 1, address-iri identifier 0..1, alternative-identifier collection 0..n, identifier-stability-rule text 0..1
Q aiu-q1 Which authoritative master-system identifier designates this address, and which register issued it?
Q aiu-q2 Does the address carry a governed global identifier or resolvable IRI in addition to the local register key, and is it persistent?
Q aiu-q3 Which alternative, legacy or third-party identifiers are recorded, and to which system is each scoped?
Q aiu-q4 Under which changes does the identifier stay stable, and which change compels minting a new one?
Q aiu-q5 Within what scope is uniqueness enforced — single register, jurisdiction, country or globally?
FINDING address-classification-and-profile: The class of address the record instantiates and the national or community address specification that fixes which components are legal, mandatory or forbidden for that class.
FIELDS address-class code 1, address-specification-ref reference 1, address-role code 1, class-profile-version text 0..1
Q acp-q1 Which address class does this record instantiate — numbered thoroughfare, landmark, postal delivery, or another declared class?
Q acp-q2 Which address specification or class profile governs this record, and at which version?
Q acp-q3 Does the record designate a location, a point of postal delivery, or both, and how is that role encoded?
Q acp-q4 How does this class map to the corresponding classes of each standard the register claims alignment with?
LAYER address-composition Address composition and locators The internal parts of an address: scoping components in their hierarchy, locator designators and sub-address levels, and alias or rendered representations.
FINDING address-components-and-hierarchy: The administrative, address-area, postal and thoroughfare components that scope an address, the level at which each sits, and whether each is a reference to an authoritative feature or free text.
FIELDS component-ref reference 1..n, component-type code 1, admin-level-index number 0..1, component-obligation code 0..1
Q ach-q1 Which components scope this address, and what level does each occupy in the hierarchy?
Q ach-q2 Which components are mandatory, conditional or prohibited for this class in this country?
Q ach-q3 Does each component reference an authoritative external feature, or repeat a name as unlinked text?
Q ach-q4 How are sub-country administrative levels ordered and labelled, and how does that ordering survive exchange?
FINDING locator-designators-and-subaddressing: The human-readable designators and names that distinguish the addressable object within its component scope, including house numbers with non-numeric parts and the building, floor, unit, room and seat levels beneath them.
FIELDS locator-designator text 1..n, locator-type code 1, locator-level code 0..1, locator-name text 0..n, parent-address-ref reference 0..1
Q lds-q1 Which locator designators identify the object within its scope, and at which locator level does each apply?
Q lds-q2 Is the house number a plain ordinal, a range, a hyphenated compound or a non-numeric token, and how is it normalised for sorting and matching?
Q lds-q3 Which sub-address levels are addressable in their own right, and which are descriptive only?
Q lds-q4 When a sub-address exists, does it reference a parent address record or stand alone, and what breaks if the parent is retired?
FINDING address-alias-and-representation: Alias relations between address records and the language-, script- and purpose-specific rendered forms of the same address, including which form is authoritative for which use.
FIELDS alias-of-ref reference 0..1, alias-type code 0..1, representation-text text 0..n, representation-language code 0..n, authoritative-purpose code 0..n
Q aar-q1 Which address records are aliases of which primary address, and what is the alias relation type?
Q aar-q2 Which rendered or transliterated representations exist, and in which language and script is each written?
Q aar-q3 Which representation is authoritative for legal service of documents, and which for mail delivery?
Q aar-q4 May an alias be used as a matching key, and with what confidence penalty?
BUNDLE assignment-and-lifecycle Assignment authority, lifecycle and object binding Who may create, change and retire an address, under which numbering rules, through which lifecycle states and temporal versions, and to which object in a sibling model the address is bound.
LAYER addressing-authority Addressing authority and numbering rules The mandated body, its jurisdiction, and the address reference system whose numbering scheme determines whether a candidate address is well formed.
FINDING addressing-authority-and-jurisdiction: The body legally empowered to assign, alter and retire addresses in a territory, the instrument granting that power, the extent within which it applies, and how non-authoritative address creation is handled.
FIELDS authority-ref reference 1, mandate-instrument-ref reference 0..1, jurisdiction-extent geometry 0..1, authority-effective-period object 0..1
Q aaj-q1 Which body holds the mandate to assign, alter and retire addresses here, and under what legal instrument?
Q aaj-q2 Who stewards the address record, as distinct from whoever owns the object addressed?
Q aaj-q3 What is the geographic extent of the authority's jurisdiction, and how are overlaps or gaps at its boundary resolved?
Q aaj-q4 What status is given to an address created by a developer, occupier or crowd source rather than the authority?
FINDING address-reference-system-rules: The numbering scheme governing an area — axis origin and direction, block ranges, intervals, parity and reservation rules — and the tests that decide whether a candidate address conforms to it.
FIELDS reference-system-id identifier 1, numbering-axis text 0..1, number-range object 0..n, parity-rule code 0..1
Q arsr-q1 Which numbering scheme governs this address, including axis origin, direction, interval, parity and block ranges?
Q arsr-q2 What test determines that a candidate number is valid within the governing reference system?
Q arsr-q3 How are numbers reserved, skipped or reissued when a parcel is subdivided or consolidated?
Q arsr-q4 Where two schemes overlap the same ground, which one governs, and who decides?
LAYER address-lifecycle Lifecycle state and temporal versioning Lifecycle status and its permitted transitions, and the separate axes of real-world validity and record version lifespan.
FINDING address-lifecycle-status: The current lifecycle status of an address, the transition and evidence that produced it, the distinction between official status and lifecycle status, and how long a retired address remains resolvable.
FIELDS lifecycle-status code 1, official-status code 0..1, status-changed-at timestamp 0..1, superseded-by-ref reference 0..n
Q als-q1 What is the current lifecycle status of the address, and which transition produced it?
Q als-q2 Which transitions are permitted, who may authorise each, and what evidence must accompany them?
Q als-q3 Is a retired address retained for historical resolution, and for how long does it stay resolvable?
Q als-q4 May an address be reserved or proposed before the object exists, and what obligations follow from that state?
Q als-q5 How does official status differ from lifecycle status in this register, and can a record be active but unofficial?
FINDING temporal-validity-and-versioning: The two distinct time axes an address carries — the period the address is valid in the real world, and the period a particular version of the record was current in the register — together with observation and ingestion times and the separation of corrections from real change.
FIELDS valid-from timestamp 1, valid-to timestamp 0..1, version-begin timestamp 1, version-end timestamp 0..1, observed-at timestamp 0..1, change-kind code 0..1
Q tvv-q1 When did the address become valid in the real world, and when did it cease to be valid?
Q tvv-q2 When did this version of the record begin and end in the register, independent of real-world validity?
Q tvv-q3 Are all recorded times expressed per RFC 3339 with seconds and an explicit offset or Z, and how is an unknown local offset represented?
Q tvv-q4 How is a correction to a past record distinguished from a real-world change, and does a correction alter the validity period?
Q tvv-q5 What is the observation or ingestion time of this version, and does it differ from the event time it reports?
LAYER addressable-object-binding Binding to the addressable object How an address attaches, as a mixin, to an object owned by a sibling model, and what governs that attachment.
FINDING finding-addressable-object-binding: The act that binds an address to an addressable object in another model, its evidential basis, its cardinality in both directions, its exclusivity per purpose, and what happens when the object is demolished, merged or subdivided.
FIELDS addressable-object-ref reference 1..n, object-model-ref code 1, binding-basis code 0..1, binding-effective-from timestamp 0..1, binding-purpose code 0..n
Q aob-q1 Which addressable object does this address designate, in which sibling model, and by which identifier?
Q aob-q2 Can one object hold several addresses and one address designate several objects, and which combinations are legal here?
Q aob-q3 What basis justified the binding — building permit, survey, occupancy certificate or field observation?
Q aob-q4 What happens to the address when the object is demolished, merged or subdivided?
Q aob-q5 Is the binding exclusive for legal service, emergency dispatch and delivery alike, or may these differ?
BUNDLE thoroughfare-and-postal Thoroughfares and postal designation Named ways used in addressing and their continuity across renaming, and the postal descriptors, delivery point types and templates that turn a stored address into a deliverable one.
LAYER thoroughfare-naming Thoroughfare identity, naming and continuity Official names of streets, roads and waterways used for addressing, their decomposition into parts, and their behaviour under renaming, splitting and merging.
FINDING thoroughfare-identity-and-naming: The identifier of a thoroughfare independent of its current name, the decomposition of a complete street name into directional, type, modifier and base parts, its addressing-relevant extent, and the kinds of way admissible for addressing.
FIELDS thoroughfare-id identifier 1, complete-street-name text 1..n, street-name-part collection 0..n, thoroughfare-kind code 0..1, transport-link-ref reference 0..n
Q tin-q1 Which identifier designates the thoroughfare independently of whatever name it currently bears?
Q tin-q2 How is the complete street name decomposed into pre-directional, pre-type, pre-modifier, base name, post-type, post-directional and post-modifier parts?
Q tin-q3 What is the addressing extent of the thoroughfare, and how does it link to the transport network feature that carries its geometry?
Q tin-q4 Which kinds of way are admissible as addressing thoroughfares in this jurisdiction, and which are excluded?
FINDING thoroughfare-renaming-and-continuity: How renaming, splitting and merging events are recorded, how long superseded names remain usable for delivery, dispatch and legal documents, and what happens to the addresses on the affected way.
FIELDS name-event collection 0..n, previous-name text 0..n, name-validity-period object 0..n, name-grace-period duration 0..n
Q trc-q1 What renaming, splitting or merging events has this thoroughfare undergone, and when did each take effect?
Q trc-q2 For how long do superseded names remain acceptable for delivery, emergency dispatch and legal documents, and do those periods differ?
Q trc-q3 How are the addresses on the thoroughfare preserved or reissued across the change?
Q trc-q4 Which body approves a renaming, what consultation is required, and where is the decision recorded?
LAYER postal-delivery Postal designation, delivery points and rendering Postcodes and post names, delivery point types, and the country templates and rules that render stored components into a deliverable address.
FINDING postal-descriptor-and-delivery-point: The postcode and post name that route mail, the operator that maintains them, whether the descriptor bears an authoritative extent, whether the postal city may differ from the municipality, and which kind of delivery point is designated.
FIELDS postcode code 0..1, post-name text 0..n, postal-operator-ref reference 0..1, delivery-point-type code 0..1, postal-city text 0..1
Q pdp-q1 What postcode and post name apply, and which designated postal operator maintains them?
Q pdp-q2 Is this a physical delivery point, a post office box, poste restante, a rural or highway contract route, or a military address?
Q pdp-q3 Does the postal descriptor have a geographic extent, and is that extent authoritative or an approximation derived from delivery points?
Q pdp-q4 May the postal city name differ from the municipality of location, and which is authoritative for which purpose?
Q pdp-q5 How often does the operator revise postal codes, and how are revisions propagated to bound addresses?
FINDING postal-template-and-rendering: The country-specific template and rendering rules that select, order, concatenate and format components into output lines, the contextual parameters that vary the result, and the handling of components with no target in the destination template.
FIELDS template-ref reference 1, template-language code 0..1, rendered-line collection 0..n, rendering-context object 0..1, unmapped-component-policy code 0..1
Q ptr-q1 Which country template governs rendering for this destination, at which version, and where is it obtained?
Q ptr-q2 What line identification, ordering, concatenation and formatting rules apply, and which components are optional in each line?
Q ptr-q3 Which contextual parameters change the rendering, such as origin country, domestic versus international, or script?
Q ptr-q4 How are addressee and organisation segments kept separate from the location components this model owns?
Q ptr-q5 What is done when a stored component has no mapping in the destination template?
BUNDLE spatial-referencing Spatial position and reference systems Coordinate positions with their meaning, method and accuracy; the coordinate and geographic-identifier reference systems that give them sense; and non-coordinate code and grid references.
LAYER geocode-position Position, specification and accuracy What a stored coordinate actually points at, how it was obtained, which of several positions is default, and how accurate and how precise it is.
FINDING position-and-geometry-specification: The geometry stored for an address or place, an explicit statement of which real-world feature it specifies (entrance, building, parcel, delivery point, utility connection or segment interpolation), the method by which it was determined, and which position is the default among several.
FIELDS position-geometry geometry 1..n, geometry-specification code 1, geometry-method code 1, is-default-position boolean 1, z-level number 0..1
Q pgs-q1 What does this position represent — entrance, building, parcel, postal delivery point, utility connection or street segment interpolation?
Q pgs-q2 By what method was the position determined, and by whom?
Q pgs-q3 Which of several positions is the default, and which position should routing, dispatch and statistics each use?
Q pgs-q4 In which geometry type and dimensionality is the position expressed, including any vertical or floor-level component?
FINDING positional-accuracy-and-precision: The stated accuracy of a position with its measure and confidence, the number of digits that are actually meaningful, containment tests that detect implausible coordinates, and how accuracy travels to consumers that accept only a bare point.
FIELDS horizontal-accuracy quantity 0..1, accuracy-confidence text 0..1, coordinate-precision-digits number 0..1, containment-check-result code 0..1
Q pap-q1 What is the stated positional accuracy of this coordinate, under which measure and at what confidence level?
Q pap-q2 How many decimal places or code digits are meaningful here, and which published digits are spurious precision?
Q pap-q3 What test rejects a position falling outside the parcel, building footprint or jurisdiction it claims?
Q pap-q4 How is accuracy conveyed to a consumer whose format carries only a point without metadata?
LAYER reference-systems Coordinate and geographic-identifier reference systems The systems that give positions and identifiers their meaning: coordinate reference systems with datums and epochs, and spatial reference systems using geographic identifiers with their gazetteers.
FINDING crs-and-coordinate-epoch: The declared CRS with its authority code and version, whether it is dynamic and therefore requires a coordinate epoch, the axis order and units in force, any vertical CRS, and the coordinate operation used when transforming for a consumer.
FIELDS crs-ref identifier 1, coordinate-epoch date 0..1, axis-order code 0..1, vertical-crs-ref reference 0..1, coordinate-operation-ref reference 0..n
Q cce-q1 In which coordinate reference system is this position expressed, cited by authority code and dataset version?
Q cce-q2 Is the CRS dynamic, and if so which coordinate epoch applies to the stored coordinates?
Q cce-q3 What axis order and units apply, and how is that reconciled with encodings that fix longitude before latitude?
Q cce-q4 Which coordinate operation, at what accuracy, is applied when transforming into a consumer's CRS?
Q cce-q5 Is a vertical or compound CRS declared for any height component, and what is its datum?
FINDING geographic-identifier-and-gazetteer: Spatial referencing by geographic identifier: the location types a reference system defines, the location instances that populate it, the gazetteer that is custodian of record, complementary coordinate references, and instance lifecycle.
FIELDS location-type code 1..n, location-instance-id identifier 1, gazetteer-ref reference 0..1, parent-location-ref reference 0..n, complementary-position geometry 0..1
Q gig-q1 Which location types does this spatial reference system define, and what identifier form does each use?
Q gig-q2 How do location instances nest, adjoin or overlap, and which of those relationships are recorded?
Q gig-q3 Which gazetteer is custodian of record for each location type, and over what territory of use?
Q gig-q4 Does each location instance carry a complementary coordinate reference, and at what geometry level?
Q gig-q5 How are location instances added, merged, split and retired, and are historic instances retained?
LAYER code-based-references Code and grid based location references Derived, non-coordinate references such as open location codes and grid squares that stand in for an address where none exists.
FINDING grid-and-code-based-reference: Code-based location references: the scheme and code length in use, the ground area a length resolves, whether a code is full or shortened and therefore needs a reference location, whether the scheme is openly reversible or vendor-dependent, and its role where no civic address exists.
FIELDS location-code-value code 1, code-scheme code 1, code-length number 0..1, code-reference-location geometry 0..1, scheme-openness code 0..1
Q gcb-q1 Which code scheme is used, at what code length, and what ground area does that length resolve?
Q gcb-q2 Is the code full or shortened, and if shortened, which reference location is required to recover it?
Q gcb-q3 Is the scheme openly specified and reversible without a proprietary service, or does resolution depend on a vendor?
Q gcb-q4 How does the code relate to the underlying coordinate reference system and to any civic address for the same place?
Q gcb-q5 Where no civic address exists, what governs the use of the code as the operative location reference?
BUNDLE places-and-names Named places and toponyms Points of interest used for orientation and discovery, and the toponyms that name places across languages, scripts and periods of official recognition.
LAYER points-of-interest Points of interest Named places usable for orientation, discovery and reference, with category, status and confidence.
FINDING poi-identity-and-status: The identifier of a point of interest independent of its operator and name, the taxonomy and level that classify it, its operating status as distinct from opening hours, its resolution to addresses and buildings, and the confidence that it exists at all.
FIELDS poi-id identifier 1, poi-name collection 1..n, poi-category code 1..n, poi-operating-status code 0..1, poi-existence-confidence number 0..1, poi-address-ref reference 0..n
Q pis-q1 Which identifier designates the point of interest independently of its operator, brand and current name?
Q pis-q2 Which category taxonomy classifies the POI, at which level, and which alternate categories also apply?
Q pis-q3 What is the operating status of the POI, and when was it last confirmed?
Q pis-q4 How does the POI resolve to one or more addresses, to a building or unit, and to a brand?
Q pis-q5 What existence confidence is asserted, on what evidence, and what threshold gates publication?
LAYER toponyms Toponyms and multilingual names Place names with their language, script, romanisation, official standardisation status and history.
FINDING toponym-language-and-status: Which place a toponym names, the language and script of each name form and its relation to a source form, which form is officially standardised by the national names authority, how contested or reinstated names are recorded, and which form to display for a given audience.
FIELDS toponym-text text 1..n, name-language code 0..1, name-script code 0..1, name-status code 0..1, romanisation-system code 0..1, name-authority-ref reference 0..1
Q tls-q1 Which named place does this toponym name, and is the same name borne by other places within the same scope?
Q tls-q2 In which language and script is each name form recorded, and which forms are romanisations of which source form?
Q tls-q3 Which form is officially standardised by the national names authority, and which are endonyms, exonyms or historic forms?
Q tls-q4 How are contested, reinstated or superseded names recorded without erasing prior forms?
Q tls-q5 Which name form should a consumer display for a stated audience locale, and what is the fallback?
BUNDLE assurance-access-exchange Matching, quality, provenance, access and exchange How references are resolved and scored, how their quality is tested and defects recorded, where each attribute came from and when, under what licence and protection they may be used, and how they cross into other models and encodings without silent loss.
LAYER matching-and-quality Matching, quality tests and anomalies Resolution of input strings and positions to reference records with scored outcomes, and the tests, anomalies and defect handling that keep the register trustworthy.
FINDING geocoding-and-matching: The normalisation and parsing that precede matching, the reference dataset version matched against, the score and type of a match, the threshold that separates automatic acceptance from review, and the explicit representation of ambiguity, partial matches and interpolation.
FIELDS match-score number 0..1, match-type code 0..1, matched-address-ref reference 0..1, reference-dataset-version text 0..1, candidate-set collection 0..n, interpolation-flag boolean 0..1
Q gam-q1 What normalisation and parsing steps precede matching, and against which reference dataset version was the match run?
Q gam-q2 What match score, match type and matched component set does the operation return?
Q gam-q3 Which score threshold accepts a match automatically, and what routes a candidate to human review?
Q gam-q4 Is the result stored as an attribute of the address or as a separate derived observation with its own timestamp and inputs?
Q gam-q5 How are ambiguous, partial and interpolated results represented rather than silently resolved to one answer?
FINDING quality-tests-and-anomalies: The tests a record must pass — syntax, completeness, conformity to the governing reference system, duplication and positional containment — the anomaly status recorded when it fails, whether an anomalous address remains usable, and how defects are notified and resolved with retained evidence.
FIELDS quality-test-id code 1..n, test-result code 1..n, anomaly-status code 0..1, tested-at timestamp 0..1, validation-schema-ref reference 0..1
Q qta-q1 Which quality tests does this record pass or fail, and against which rule set version were they run?
Q qta-q2 What anomaly status applies when the address is not correct under its governing reference system, and may it still be used?
Q qta-q3 Who is notified of a defect, within what period must it be resolved, and what status applies meanwhile?
Q qta-q4 What evidence is retained to show that a test was executed against a specific record version?
Q qta-q5 Is the validation rule set published so that consumers can check records before submitting them?
FINDING quality-elements-measures-and-reporting: ISO 19160-3 is a profile of ISO 19157 that establishes data quality elements and measures for address data, procedures for reporting, and guidelines for use. Elements include completeness, logical consistency, positional accuracy, temporal quality, thematic accuracy and usability. The standard does not define minimum acceptable quality; fitness depends on use.
FIELDS quality-elements-measures-and-reporting-data01 text 1, quality-elements-measures-and-reporting-data02 object 0..1, quality-elements-measures-and-reporting-data03 object 0..1, quality-elements-measures-and-reporting-data04 object 0..1, quality-elements-measures-and-reporting-data05 object 0..1, quality-elements-measures-and-reporting-data06 object 0..1, quality-elements-measures-and-reporting-data07 object 0..1, quality-elements-measures-and-reporting-data08 timestamp 0..1
Q quality-elements-measures-and-reporting-q01 Against which dataset or record scope, product specification and intended use was quality evaluated?
Q quality-elements-measures-and-reporting-q02 What completeness, logical consistency, positional accuracy, temporal quality, thematic accuracy and usability results were obtained?
Q quality-elements-measures-and-reporting-q03 When was the evaluation performed, by which method, and is the result still current relative to subsequent updates?
Q quality-elements-measures-and-reporting-q04 Does the consumer impose a minimum quality threshold that ISO 19160-3 itself does not define, and is that threshold recorded as a local constraint?
LAYER provenance-and-versioning Source lineage and attribution of facts Per-attribute lineage, source and ingestion times, contributor rights and precedence when sources disagree.
FINDING source-lineage-and-observation-time: Which source dataset and source record contributed each attribute, the separate source-update, ingestion and event times, the rights a contributor retains in what they contributed, and the precedence rule that decides between conflicting sources without discarding the loser.
FIELDS source-dataset-ref reference 1..n, source-record-id identifier 0..n, source-update-time timestamp 0..n, attribute-scope text 0..n, precedence-rule code 0..1
Q slo-q1 From which source dataset and source record did each attribute of this record derive?
Q slo-q2 What are the source update time, the ingestion time and the real-world event time for each contributed attribute, and where do they diverge?
Q slo-q3 Which contributor holds rights in each contributed attribute, and does that constrain redistribution of the merged record?
Q slo-q4 When two sources conflict on the same attribute, which precedence rule decides, and is the rejected value retained?
Q slo-q5 What confidence does each source attach to its own assertion, and how is that combined into the published record?
LAYER access-and-protection Licensing, access and protection The licence and access conditions attached to reference data, and the privacy, safety, suppression and retention constraints that limit its publication.
FINDING licensing-and-access: The licence governing use, redistribution and derivation, licence encumbrance carried in from individual components, the effect of a statutory duty to publish, and the obligations that follow derived geocodes.
FIELDS licence-ref reference 1, licence-scope text 0..n, redistribution-permitted boolean 0..1, attribution-requirement text 0..1
Q laa-q1 Under what licence may this dataset be used, redistributed and built upon, and does the licence differ by component?
Q laa-q2 Which components are encumbered by a third-party licence that blocks open publication of the merged whole?
Q laa-q3 Does a statutory duty to publish spatial data override or coexist with a commercial licence here?
Q laa-q4 What attribution, share-alike or field-of-use restriction attaches to geocodes derived from this data?
FINDING privacy-safety-and-suppression: When a location reference becomes personal data, which records are suppressed or coarsened for safety and by whose decision, how long records and matching logs are kept, what is deleted versus tombstoned, and how authorised responders still reach a suppressed record.
FIELDS sensitivity-class code 0..1, suppression-decision-ref reference 0..1, coarsening-rule text 0..1, retention-period duration 0..1, deletion-mode code 0..1
Q psr-q1 At what point does this location reference become personal data, and which linkage causes that?
Q psr-q2 Which records are suppressed or coarsened for safety, by whose decision, and for how long?
Q psr-q3 What precision reduction applies when publishing a sensitive position, and is the reduction reversible from published data?
Q psr-q4 How long are retired addresses, assignment records and matching logs retained, and what is hard-deleted versus tombstoned?
Q psr-q5 What lawful-access route allows emergency services or another authorised party to reach a suppressed record?
LAYER interoperability Crosswalks, conformance and projections Declared mappings to external address models, the evidence behind any conformance claim, and the encoding projections that expose the canonical record.
FINDING crosswalks-conformance-and-encodings: The external models this register is mapped to and where those mappings lose information, the evidence supporting any conformance claim, the published encoding projections and their derivation from one canonical record, and the handling of components with no target in a receiving model.
FIELDS crosswalk-ref reference 1..n, target-model-version text 0..n, mapping-loss-note text 0..n, conformance-claim code 0..n, projection-id identifier 0..n
Q cce2-q1 To which external address or location models is this register crosswalked, at which versions, and where is each mapping lossy?
Q cce2-q2 What evidence supports each claimed conformance class, and was a conformance test actually executed?
Q cce2-q3 Which encoding projections are published, and are they all derived from a single canonical record?
Q cce2-q4 Which fields does each projection drop or default, and is that projection therefore non-authoritative?
Q cce2-q5 How is a component with no target in the receiving model conveyed without silent loss?
